src/docs/publishing/README.md, before:

# Publishing Shadow JARs

## Publishing with Maven-Publish Plugin

The Shadow plugin will automatically configure the necessary tasks in the presence of Gradle's
`maven-publish` plugin.
The plugin provides the `component` method from the `shadow` extension to configure the
publication with the necessary artifact and dependencies in the POM file.

```groovy
// Publishing a Shadow JAR with the Maven-Publish Plugin
apply plugin: 'java'
apply plugin: 'maven-publish'
apply plugin: 'com.github.johnrengelman.shadow'

publishing {
  publications {
    shadow(MavenPublication) { publication ->
      project.shadow.component(publication)
    }
  }
  repositories {
    maven {
      url "http://repo.myorg.com"
    }
  }
}
```

## Publishing with Maven Plugin

The Shadow plugin will automatically configure the necessary tasks in the presence of Gradle's
`maven` plugin.
To publish the JAR, simply configure the publish location for the `uploadShadow` task and execute it.

```groovy
// Publishing a Shadow JAR with the Maven Plugin
apply plugin: 'java'
apply plugin: 'maven'
apply plugin: 'com.github.johnrengelman.shadow'

uploadShadow {
  repositories {
    mavenDeployer {
      repository(url: "http://repo.myorg.com")
    }
  }
}
```

## Shadow Configuration and Publishing

The Shadow plugin provides a custom configuration (`configurations.shadow`) to specify
runtime dependencies that are **not** merged into the final JAR file.
When configuring publishing with the Shadow plugin, the dependencies in the `shadow`
configuration, are translated to become `RUNTIME` scoped dependencies of the
published artifact.

No other dependencies are automatically configured for inclusion in the POM file.
For example, excluded dependencies are **not** automatically added to the POM file or
if the configuration for merging are modified by specifying
`shadowJar.configurations = [configurations.myconfiguration]`, there is no automatic
configuration of the POM file.

This automatic configuration occurs _only_ when using the above methods for
configuring publishing. If this behavior is not desirable, then publishing **must**
be manually configured.

Commit message:

chore: fix a bunch of tests and docs now that we are running Gradle 7

src/docs/publishing/README.md, after:

# Publishing Shadow JARs

## Publishing with Maven-Publish Plugin

The Shadow plugin will automatically configure the necessary tasks in the presence of Gradle's
`maven-publish` plugin.
The plugin provides the `component` method from the `shadow` extension to configure the
publication with the necessary artifact and dependencies in the POM file.

```groovy
// Publishing a Shadow JAR with the Maven-Publish Plugin
apply plugin: 'java'
apply plugin: 'maven-publish'
apply plugin: 'com.github.johnrengelman.shadow'

publishing {
  publications {
    shadow(MavenPublication) { publication ->
      project.shadow.component(publication)
    }
  }
  repositories {
    maven {
      url "http://repo.myorg.com"
    }
  }
}
```

## Publishing with Maven Plugin

> The `maven` plugin has been deprecated in recent versions of Gradle.
The documentation is kept here for reference, but is not longer tested as part of the CI process.

The Shadow plugin will automatically configure the necessary tasks in the presence of Gradle's
`maven` plugin.
To publish the JAR, simply configure the publish location for the `uploadShadow` task and execute it.

```
// Publishing a Shadow JAR with the Maven Plugin
apply plugin: 'java'
apply plugin: 'maven'
apply plugin: 'com.github.johnrengelman.shadow'

uploadShadow {
  repositories {
    mavenDeployer {
      repository(url: "http://repo.myorg.com")
    }
  }
}
```

## Shadow Configuration and Publishing

The Shadow plugin provides a custom configuration (`configurations.shadow`) to specify
runtime dependencies that are **not** merged into the final JAR file.
When configuring publishing with the Shadow plugin, the dependencies in the `shadow`
configuration, are translated to become `RUNTIME` scoped dependencies of the
published artifact.

No other dependencies are automatically configured for inclusion in the POM file.
For example, excluded dependencies are **not** automatically added to the POM file or
if the configuration for merging are modified by specifying
`shadowJar.configurations = [configurations.myconfiguration]`, there is no automatic
configuration of the POM file.

This automatic configuration occurs _only_ when using the above methods for
configuring publishing. If this behavior is not desirable, then publishing **must**
be manually configured.
