docs/configuration/reproducible-builds/README.md, before:

# Reproducible Builds

By default, JAR files generated by Gradle (with or without Shadow) for a single project with the same source code may not be identical to each other. Sometimes it's desireable to configure a project to consistently output a byte-for-byte identical JAR on every build. Gradle supports this with the following configuration, and Shadow will correctly respect these settings too:

    tasks.withType(AbstractArchiveTask).configureEach {
      preserveFileTimestamps = false
      reproducibleFileOrder = true
    }

One effect that this configuration will have is that the timestamps of all files in the JAR will be reset to a single consistent value. If your code or any files being included into the JAR depend on the timestamps being set accurately within the JAR, then this may not be the correct choice for you.

See the [Reproducible archives section in Gradle's documentation](https://docs.gradle.org/4.9/userguide/working_with_files.html#sec:reproducible_archives) for more information.

Commit message:

Add Kotlin DSL examples in docs (#1306)
* Update docs/application-plugin/README.md

* Update snippet parser and add Kotlin DSL runner

* Update docs/configuration/dependencies/README.md

* Update docs/configuration/filtering/README.md

* Update docs/configuration/merging/README.md

* Update docs/configuration/minimizing/README.md

* Update docs/configuration/relocation/README.md

* Update docs/configuration/reproducible-builds/README.md

* Update docs/configuration/README.md

* Update docs/custom-tasks/README.md

* Update docs/getting-started/README.md

* Update docs/kmp-plugin/README.md

* Update docs/multi-project/README.md

* Update docs/plugins/README.md

* Update docs/publishing/README.md

* Trim spaces

* Fix tabbed details

* No need to apply java plugin for application plugin

* Cleanups

docs/configuration/reproducible-builds/README.md, after:

# Reproducible Builds

By default, JAR files generated by Gradle (with or without Shadow) for a single project with the same source code may not be identical to each other. Sometimes it's desireable to configure a project to consistently output a byte-for-byte identical JAR on every build. Gradle supports this with the following configuration, and Shadow will correctly respect these settings too:

=== "Kotlin"

    ```kotlin
    tasks.withType<AbstractArchiveTask>().configureEach {
      isPreserveFileTimestamps = false
      isReproducibleFileOrder = true
    }
    ```

=== "Groovy"

    ```groovy
    tasks.withType(AbstractArchiveTask).configureEach {
      preserveFileTimestamps = false
      reproducibleFileOrder = true
    }
    ```

One effect that this configuration will have is that the timestamps of all files in the JAR will be reset to a single consistent value. If your code or any files being included into the JAR depend on the timestamps being set accurately within the JAR, then this may not be the correct choice for you.

See the [Reproducible archives section in Gradle's documentation](https://docs.gradle.org/4.9/userguide/working_with_files.html#sec:reproducible_archives) for more information.
